W-13789629 Update policies-pdk-develop-custom-policies.adoc (#352)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.5/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-pdk-develop-custom-policies.adoc

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

After installing the xref:policies-pdk-prerequisites.adoc[], you can develop custom policies by using the Policy Development Kit (PDK).

> The custom policy lifecycle consists of all the steps of developing a custom policy that occur in PDK. The following steps do not include steps that occur outside of PDK, such as xref:policies-pdk-deploy-policies.adoc[applying a policy] which is the same for all Flex Gateway policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The custom policy lifecycle consists of all the steps of developing a custom policy that occur in PDK. The following steps do not include steps that occur outside of PDK, such as xref:policies-pdk-deploy-policies.adoc[applying a policy], which is the same for all Flex Gateway policies.
```

After you xref:policies-pdk-create-project.adoc[create a new project], you might iteratively complete some steps. For example, while writing the policy's source code, you might need to return to xref:policies-pdk-create-schema-definition.adoc[add additional parameters], or you might need to recompile the policy after debugging the source code.

To create a custom policy with PDK, follow these steps:

. xref:policies-pdk-create-project.adoc[Create a new project].

. xref:policies-pdk-create-schema-definition.adoc[Define a schema definition].
+
Modify the `definition/gcl.yaml` file to define metadata and configuration parameters for your custom policy.

. xref:policies-pdk-configure-features.adoc[Configure custom policy features in Rust].
+
Use the rust code examples to implement your custom logic in the `src/lib.rs` file.

. xref:policies-pdk-compile-policies.adoc[Compile your custom policy].
+

> Compile your policy creates the `WebAssembly` binary file and configuration files necessary to upload your policy to Exchange and deploy it to a Flex Gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compiling your policy creates the `WebAssembly` binary file and configuration files necessary to upload your policy to Exchange and deploy it to a Flex Gateway.
```

. xref:policies-pdk-debug-local.adoc[Debug Your Policy Locally with PDK].
+
Use the provided Flex Gateway configuration files to debug your policy locally with PDK before distributing it on Exchange.

. xref:policies-pdk-publish-policies.adoc#publish[Publish your policy on Exchange].
+

> Publish your policy on Exchange to distribute a beta version of your policy for testing with your Flex Gateway configuration. To deploy a policy to Flex Gateway, see xref:policies-pdk-deploy-policies.adoc[applying it to an API instance] deployed on Flex Gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Publish your policy on Exchange to distribute a beta version of your policy for testing with your Flex Gateway configuration. To deploy a policy to Flex Gateway, see step 8.
```

Reviewer: I changed this because  it was not clear that the link target is a step.

. xref:policies-pdk-publish-policies.adoc#release[Release your policy on Exchange].
+
Release your policy on Exchange to distribute a production-ready policy.

. Deploy your custom policy to a production environment by xref:policies-pdk-deploy-policies.adoc[applying it to an API instance] deployed on Flex Gateway. 

> . Configure a new version of this API instance by returning to xref:policies-pdk-create-schema-definition.adoc[].

Reviewer: Is this referring to step 2? I so, "...by returning to step 2."

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

After installing the xref:policies-pdk-prerequisites.adoc[], you can develop custom policies by using the Policy Development Kit (PDK).

> The custom policy lifecycle consists of the following docs that explain all steps of developing a custom policy that occur in PDK. The following docs do not include steps that occur outside of PDK, such as xref:policies-pdk-deploy-policies.adoc[applying a policy].

Reviewer: I would refer to steps here and not docs. 
occur > occurs
Text is confusing - does the policy occur in PDF or is PDK used to define it?
Is there a place where all of the steps are listed, whether or not they are developed in the PDK?

The custom policy lifecycle consists of the following steps for developing a custom policy by using PDF. For a list of all steps, including those that occur outside of PDK, see xxx.

After you xref:policies-pdk-create-project.adoc[create a new project], you might iteratively complete some steps. For example, while writing the policy's source code, you might need to return to xref:policies-pdk-create-schema-definition.adoc[add additional parameters], or you might need to recompile the policy after debugging the source code.

> The commands associated with each step are provided for reference. However, configuration is necessary before running some of the commands.

Reviewer: I have the same questions as before: Do you need the first sentence? What do you mean by "configuration is necessary...?" Configuration of what?
Once I understand this, I can do a better job of editing.

Author: I thought I deleted this, sorry.

To create a custom policy with PDK, follow these steps:

> . xref:policies-pdk-create-project.adoc[Create a new project] 

Reviewer: Since these are sentences they need periods: "[Create a new project.]

. xref:policies-pdk-create-schema-definition.adoc[Define a schema definition]
+
Modify the `definition/gcl.yaml` file to define metadata and configuration parameters for your custom policy.

. xref:policies-pdk-configure-features.adoc[Configure custom policy features in Rust]
+
Use the rust code examples to implement your custom logic in the `src/lib.rs` file.

. xref:policies-pdk-compile-policies.adoc[Compile your custom policy]
+

> Compiling your policy creates the `WebAssembly` binary file and configuration files necessary to upload your policy to Exchange and deploy it to a Flex Gateway.

Reviewer: For consistency with the other step text:
Compile your policy to

. xref:policies-pdk-debug-local.adoc[Debug Your Policy Locally with PDK]
+
Use the provided Flex Gateway configuration files to debug your policy locally with PDK before distributing it on Exchange.

. xref:policies-pdk-publish-policies.adoc#publish[Publish your policy on Exchange]

.. Publish your policy on Exchange to distribute and test your policy with your Flex Gateway configuration.

> .. Test your policy by xref:policies-pdk-deploy-policies.adoc[applying it to an API instance] deployed on Flex Gateway.

Reviewer: For consistency with other steps, remove the sub-steps and combine into a paragraph: 
Then text your policy...

. xref:policies-pdk-publish-policies.adoc#release[Release your policy on Exchange]
+

> Release your policy on Exchange to distribute and test your policy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How is this step different from the previous one? Both steps say "to distrbute and test your policy."
```

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

After installing all the xref:policies-pdk-prerequisites.adoc[], you can begin developing custom policies.

> The custom policy lifecycle consists of the following docs that explain all steps of developing a custom policy that occur in the Policy Development Kit (PDK). After you xref:policies-pdk-create-project.adoc[Create a New Project], you can complete the steps out of order, for example, when debugging a policy you may need to return to the configure policy feature or define a schema definition steps.

Reviewer 2: Instead of "you can complete the steps out of order", you might say something like "you might iteratively complete some of the steps. For example, ....

Another way to show this is to use numbered lists for things that must be done in order and use bulleted lists for things that don't. 

In general, I think it's understood in technical procedures that steps might be done in a different order, since that is often the case. You are just showing them one suggested way to do it.

The commands associated with each step are provided for reference. However, configuration is necessary for before running some of the commands.

> Complete the following steps to create a custom policy with PDK:

Reviewer 2: Here you could soften this to something like "To get started creating a custom policy with PDK, here are the suggested steps:"

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

> After installing all the xref:policies-pdk-prerequisites.adoc[], you can begin developing custom policies with the Policy Development Kit (PDK).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installing the xref:policies-pdk-prerequisites.adoc[], you can develop custom policies by using the Policy Development Kit (PDK).
```

The custom policy lifecycle consists of the following docs that explain all steps of developing a custom policy that occur in PDK. The following docs do not include steps that occur outside of PDK, such as xref:policies-pdk-deploy-policies.adoc[applying a policy].

> After you xref:policies-pdk-create-project.adoc[Create a New Project], you might iteratively complete some steps. For example, while writing the policy's source code, you may need to return to xref:policies-pdk-create-schema-definition.adoc[Define Policy Configuration Parameters] to add additional parameters, or you might need to recompile the policy after debugging the source code.

Reviewer: Global for similar text: This reads as "After you Create a New Project." It should be "After you create a new project," so the link should be in lower case.

> After you xref:policies-pdk-create-project.adoc[Create a New Project], you might iteratively complete some steps. For example, while writing the policy's source code, you may need to return to xref:policies-pdk-create-schema-definition.adoc[Define Policy Configuration Parameters] to add additional parameters, or you might need to recompile the policy after debugging the source code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you xref:policies-pdk-create-project.adoc[create a new project], you might iteratively complete some steps. For example, while writing the policy's source code, you might need to return to xref:policies-pdk-create-schema-definition.adoc[add additional parameters], or you might need to recompile the policy after debugging the source code.
```

> The commands associated with each step are provided for reference. However, configuration is necessary before running some of the commands.

Reviewer: Do you need the first sentence? What do you mean by "configuration is necessary...?" Configuration of what?

> To get started creating a custom policy with PDK, follow the suggested steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a custom policy with PDK, follow these steps:
```

> . xref:policies-pdk-create-project.adoc[Create a New Project] 

Reviewer: Create a new project:

+
[source,ssh]
----
anypoint-cli-v4 pdk policy-project create --name <my-custom-policy>
----

> . xref:policies-pdk-create-schema-definition.adoc[Define a Schema Definitions]

Reviewer: Again, in some cases, you need to write the link in a different case or using different words.

> . xref:policies-pdk-create-schema-definition.adoc[Define a Schema Definitions]

Reviewer: Global for similar text - Define a schema:

+

> Modify the `definition/gcl.yaml` file to define metadata and configuration parameters for your custom policy.

Reviewer: These are sub-steps of step "Define a schema," so they need to have numbers using "..".

+
Run the `build-asset-files` throughout the development process to update the `src/config.rs` file with your new configuration parameters:
+
[source,ssh]
----
make build-asset-files
----

> . xref:policies-pdk-configure-features.adoc[Configure Custom Policy Features]

Reviewer: Change the case of the text.

+

> Implement your custom logic in the `src/lib.rs` file.

Reviewer: Since there is only one substep, I would combine it with the step: Configure custom policy features by implementing...

> . xref:policies-pdk-compile-policies.adoc[Compile Custom a Custom Policy]

Reviewer: Change the case of the text and fix the word order.

+

> Compiling your policy creates the `WebAssembly` binary file and configuration files necessary to upload your policy to Exchange and to deploy it to a Flex Gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compiling your policy creates the `WebAssembly` binary file and configuration files necessary to upload your policy to Exchange and deploy it to a Flex Gateway.
```

+
Run the `build` command to compile your policy:
+
[source,ssh]
----
make build
----

> . xref:policies-pdk-debug-local.adoc[Debug Your Policy Locally with PDK]

Reviewer: Change the case of the text in this step.

+
Use the provided Flex Gateway configuration files to debug your policy locally with PDK before distributing it on Exchange.
+

> After you complete the steps in the tutorial, run the `run` command to begin testing locally:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the `run` command to test locally:
```

+
[source,ssh]
----
make run
----

> . xref:policies-pdk-publish-policies.adoc#publish[Publish Your Policy on Exchange]

Reviewer: See the next edit (that text can be combined with this step.)

> . xref:policies-pdk-publish-policies.adoc#publish[Publish Your Policy on Exchange]

Reviewer: Case

+

> After testing your policy locally, publish your policy on Exchange to distribute and test your policy with your Flex Gateway configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Publish your policy on Exchange to distribute and test your policy with your Flex Gateway configuration.
```

+
Run the `publish` command to publish your policy:
+
[source,ssh]
----
make publish
----
+

> After you publish your custom policy, you can test your policy by xref:policies-pdk-deploy-policies.adoc[applying it to an API instance] deployed on Flex Gateway. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test your policy by xref:policies-pdk-deploy-policies.adoc[applying it to an API instance] deployed on Flex Gateway:
```

. xref:policies-pdk-publish-policies.adoc#release[Release Your Policy on Exchange]
+

> After testing is complete, release your policy on Exchange to distribute and test your policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Release your policy on Exchange to distribute and test your policy:
```

Reviewer: Releasing on Exchange distributes the policy but does not test it. "...make it available for testing"?

+

> Run the `release` command to release your policy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Run the `release` command to release your policy:
```

+
[source,ssh]
----
make release
----
+

> After you release your custom policy, you can deploy it in a production environment by xref:policies-pdk-deploy-policies.adoc[applying it to an API instance] deployed on Flex Gateway. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Deploy your custom policy to a production environment by xref:policies-pdk-deploy-policies.adoc[applying it to an API instance] deployed on Flex Gateway. 
```

+

> To begin working on a new version of this API instance, return to the xref:policies-pdk-create-schema-definition.adoc[Define Policy Configuration Parameters] step.

Reviewer: Where is the Define Policy Configurations Parameters step? Do you mean step 1? This text is not part of step 7. It can be step 8.

> To begin working on a new version of this API instance, return to the xref:policies-pdk-create-schema-definition.adoc[Define Policy Configuration Parameters] step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure a new version of this API instance, return to the xref:policies-pdk-create-schema-definition.adoc[Define Policy Configuration Parameters] step.
```
